STQ Topic #49

Client node
Email server
Hub
Router
Server node
Web server

State 4 examples of hardware devices that can function as nodes in a computer network.
Explain the sequence of operations and network devices involved between the time that a user clicks on a link in a web browser and the page finally displays in the web browser.
Discuss the differences between a web server and an email server.
Discuss the ethical considerations and moral obligations involved in using a computer that is capable of communicating with every other computer or networked device on a network.



STQ Topic #50

Bus topology
LAN
Mesh topology
Peer-to-peer network
Star topology
WAN

State the type of network topology used for a household Wi-Fi network that consists of a cable modem, a wireless router, multiple laptops, a streaming media player, and a wireless printer.
Outline the benefits of deploying a wireless mesh topology network in rural or underdeveloped regions.
Discuss the differences between a LAN and a WAN.
Explain how a peer-to-peer (P2P) network works. 



STQ Topic #51

Bluetooth
Data packet
Network standards
Ping
Protocol
TCP/IP

List 4 international network standards organizations and identify at least 1 standards protocol designed by each.
Discuss the benefits of protocol standards.
Outline the process of designing, selecting, and approving a protocol standard.
State the protocol used by the ping networking utility.



STQ Topic #52

Application layer
Network layer
OSI model
Protocol stack
TCP/IP model
Transport layer

List the 7 layers of the OSI model and indicate their relative positions from the Physical Layer (#1) through the Application Layer (#7).
Suggest a mnemonic phrase for remembering the names and order of the 7 layers of the OSI model.
Compare the OSI networking model with the TCP/IP networking model.
Outline how the Transport Layer functions in the transmission of network communications.



STQ Topic #53

Data compression
Error checking
Latency
Congestion
Packet loss
Throughput

Explain how data compression impacts throughput.
Explain how latency impacts throughput.
Explain how network congestion impacts throughput.
Outline the causes of packet loss during network transmissions.



STQ Topic #54

Channel
Packet header
Packet switching
Payload
Routing table
Traffic

Describe how a large file is transmitted over a network to a destination through packet switching.
Outline the structure of a typical network packet.
Describe how a network packet reaches its intended destination.
Explain why a sequence of packets sent in one order might arrive at the destination in a different order.



STQ Topic #55

Access point
Cellular network
IEEE 802
Mesh network
Personal hotspot
Wi-Fi

Describe the differences between a wireless access point and a router.
State the specific protocol for implementing a wireless local area network (WLAN).
Discuss the benefits of using a cellular device as a mobile, personal hotspot.
Outline the advantages and disadvantages of wireless networks.



STQ Topic #56

Biometrics
DDoS attack
Encryption
Firewall
Information security
Virtual private network

Explain how the use of virtual private networks has enabled changes in traditional working patterns.
State 4 methods by which a user might authenticate oneself to a computer system.
Identify 4 types of security threats that good information security practices can help to mitigate. 
Explain the benefits of encrypting wireless communication.



STQ Topic #57

Backward compatibility
End-of-life
Long-term support
Product lifecycle
Software patch
Vendor lock-in

Describe the advantages and disadvantages of maintaining backward compatibility with legacy systems.
Discuss the ethical considerations and moral obligations of businesses who encourage vendor lock-in.
Identify 2 reasons for upgrading a system.
Identify 2 reasons for not upgrading a system.



STQ Topic #58

Data curation
Data merging
Deduplication
Direct changeover
Parallel running
Phased implementation

Compare the advantages and disadvantages of direct changeover versus parallel running when migrating from one system to another.
Discuss the challenges of merging multiple datasets.
Explain how data curation can facilitate data migration.
Suggest a reason that 2 datasets may not be able to be merged successfully.



STQ Topic #59

Backup plan
Failover system
Hardware failure
Human error
Off-site storage
Redundancy

State 4 potential causes of catastrophic data loss.
Explain the need for redundant backup storage solutions.
Outline the advantages and disadvantages of off-site storage.
Discuss the challenges of maintaining a failover system.



STQ Topic #60

Automation
Closed-loop controller
Feedback
Fuzzy logic
Microcontroller
Open-loop controller

Describe how an intersection traffic light (i.e., green light, yellow light, red light) can be implemented with an open-loop control system.
Describe how an intersection traffic light (i.e., green light, yellow light, red light) can be implemented with a closed-loop control system.
Identify 4 factors that might go into the logic of a control system for an elevator.
Construct an algorithm for a microcontroller of a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system that is designed to maintain a consistent room temperature of 70˚F throughout the year.



STQ Topic #61

Analog/digital converter
Analog input
Data collection
Digital input
Input transducer
Output transducer

State 2 specific hardware components required to generate a digital audio signal from a live musical performance.
Compare the differences between analog input and digital input.
Explain how an A/D converter transforms an analog signal into a digital signal.
Identify 1 advantage and 1 disadvantage of digital data.



STQ Topic #62

Consumer electronics
Digital signal processor
Flash memory
Integrated circuit
Read-only memory
Transistor

Discuss the ethical considerations and moral obligations of using small, location-tracking devices.
Identify 2 hardware challenges in designing a location tracker.
Identify 2 security challenges in designing a location tracker.
Explain how a transistor functions.



STQ Topic #63

Avatar
Bot
Digital assistant
Expert system
Non-player character
Virtual assistant

Identify 4 commercially available virtual assistants.
Describe the role that autonomous agents can play in industries such as manufacturing, logistics, and healthcare.
Discuss the benefits and drawbacks of widespread adoption of autonomous agents in our daily lives.
State whether Microsoft should or should not bring back "Clippy" and explain your reasoning.



STQ Topic #64

Artificial intelligence
Large language model
Neural network
Reinforcement learning
Supervised learning
Unsupervised learning

Discuss the role of decision trees in machine learning.
Describe how supervised learning differs from unsupervised learning.
Explain how a neural network works, including the input layer, output layer, and hidden layer(s).
Write a response to this prompt that proves it was not written by an AI.